WHO is one of the leaders of a global alliance known as COVAX, the vaccine pillar of the ACT-Accelerator collaboration, which is working to accelerate the development and manufacturing of COVID-19 vaccines and ensure that there is fair and equitable access to these vaccines for all countries.COVAX has allocated more than 170 million vaccines across 138 countries according to a framework developed by an expert group that includes ethicists, scientists, and other public health specialists  and vetted by WHO’s Member States. It continues to work to diversify both its portfolio of vaccines and channels for access to vaccines, Under this framework, COVID-19 vaccines are being rolled out in two phases. In the first phase, they have been allocated proportionally  to the population size to all participating countries at the same time, so as to protect those people at greatest risk of infection and of severe disease. In phase II, vaccine will be allocated to target countries with higher threat and vulnerability.WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) has provided recommendations about which populations should be prioritized first. These include frontline health and care workers at high risk of infection, older adults, and those people at high risk of death because of underlying conditions like heart disease and diabetes. In the second phase of the roll-out, as more doses are produced, vaccines can go to groups less at risk of being infected or of suffering badly.COVAX aims to provide at least 2 billion vaccine doses by the end of 2021 and 1.8 billion doses to 92 lower income economies by early 2022. The Facility has the possibility to increase those doses by another 1 billion as right of first refusal for several candidates in clinical trials supported by CEPI. Although these doses are not enough for everyone in all countries, it may be enough to end the acute stage of the crisis and put the world on the road to ending the pandemic.The number of countries willing to donate vaccine has been increasing. It is important that they do so using the COVAX mechanism so the vaccine are allocated to countries that need them most. At least one billion doses could be donated by high income countries in 2021.COVAX’s need for doses is greatest right now. Countries with higher coverage rates, which are due to receive doses soon should swap their places in supply queues with COVAX so that doses can be equitably distributed as quickly as possible. COVAX continues to be in close dialogue with countries who have expressed interest in sharing doses with the Facility and expects further announcements on this to take place over the coming weeks and months.
