For most decisions, multiple ethical values and principles will be relevant to deliberationsabout how to allocate resources. This is likely to generate some disagreement, becausedifferent people may weigh the values differently. Some may prioritize equality while othersmight put more emphasis on best outcomes or prioritization of the worst-off. For this reason,it is imperative that the different values be weighed and applied to specific allocation issuesusing a fair process.A fair process for allocating scarce resources must promote certain ethical values:Transparency. In a transparent process, the decisions and their justifications shouldbe made public. This means that the population should be informed about the criteriaguiding the decisions.Inclusiveness. Those affected by allocation decisions – including individuals,communities or countries – should be able to exert at least some influence over thedecision-making process as well as the decision itself. This also means that decisions4should be open to challenge and potentially revisable, perhaps through an appealprocess. Consistency. Decisions should be consistent so that all persons in the same categoriesare treated in the same way. This means that favouritism towards one’s own family,religious or political compatriots, or otherwise, is not appropriate. All forms ofcorruption that are at variance with this principle should be challenged andcondemned. Accountability. Those making decisions about allocation must be accountable forthose decisions – that is, they should justify their decisions and be held responsible forthem. A fair process means that allocation decisions should not be made byindividuals, by individual pharmaceutical companies, or, in the case of allocationbetween countries, by a single country. Resources such as vaccines and therapiesshould not be stockpiled outside the system of fair allocation.The fair allocation of resources is one that is valuable in itself precisely because it is fair.However, it may also be valuable because a fair system engenders solidarity and trust,which are vital to the successful and sustained collective response necessary for dealingeffectively with any outbreak.
