Globally, COVID-19 vaccines such as AstraZeneca and Johnson &Johnson/Janssen have been used to protect millions of people. Data is available from both clinical trials and preliminary data from country surveillance programmes on their efficacy and safety. Some mild to moderate side effects such as fever, muscle and head aches, soreness around the injection site and tiredness are expected to affect some people after vaccination. These are a normal indications that the body is developing protection. There have been reports of very rare but serious cases of blood clots accompanied by low platelet counts (known as thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS)) occurring 3 to 30 days after vaccination with COVID-19 non-replicant adenovirus vector-based vaccines (such as the AstraZeneca and Janssen vaccines). Read more about the different types of COVID-19 vaccines. With the AstraZeneca vaccine, as of 15 July 2021, the data shows that these symptoms occur in about four to six people out of every million vaccinated (this figure varies based on age, sex and geographical location)[2}. Younger adults appear to be at higher risk than older adults. More research is underway to understand more about how people may be differently affected. With the Janssen vaccine, as of the 7 May 2021, the US Food and Drug Administration and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention had reviewed 28 reports of TTS out of a total of more than eight million people vaccinated[3]. It is possible that that there a causal link between the vaccine and these symptoms, but more data is needed. TTS is very rare; however, blood clotting is a common health problem caused by many factors. Not all clots that occur after vaccination with Astra Zeneca or the Janssen vaccine will be due to TTS. The risk of blood clots is far higher from COVID-19 itself than from either vaccine. If you experience a new, severe, persistent headache, blurred vision, chest pain, severe abdominal pain, leg swelling or unusual skin bruising and shortness of breath between three to 30 days following vaccination, contact your doctor immediately. WHO has published interim guidance for clinical case management of TTS following vaccination. The benefits of the COVID-19 Astra Zeneca and Janssen vaccines are far greater than the very small risk of TTS. As well as protecting you from severe disease and death due to COVID-19, being vaccinated can protect you against complications from ‘long COVID’, provide some protection for your close contacts and community by reducing transmission, and can reduce the risk of severe disease from some variant strains. WHO recommends that these vaccines continue to be used to protect priority groups. For more information, read the Statement of the COVID-19 subcommittee of the WHO Global Advisory Committee on Vaccine Safety (GACVS) on safety signals related to the Johnson & Johnson/Janssen COVID-19 vaccine and the GACVS review of latest evidence of rare adverse blood coagulation events with AstraZeneca COVID-19 Vaccine.
