Along with accelerating COVID-19 vaccine research and helping scale up manufacturing capacity, WHO is working in close partnership with countries, regional colleagues, and other partners to develop needed policies, strengthen regulatory capacity, training courses, and guide countries in all the needed preparations for a programme to deliver COVID-19 vaccines. WHO, UNICEF, and partners are supporting countries in preparing for COVID-19 vaccine introduction. The Country Readiness and Delivery workstream – which is part of the ACT Accelerator – has developed a toolbox with guidance, tools, and trainings.WHO’s Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) has issued interim policy recommendations for the rollout of all of the COVID-19 vaccines approved for emergency use. These recommendations can guide and support country decision-making bodies, such as the National Immunization Technical Advisory Groups, on the optimal use of existing COVID-19 vaccines.  WHO has also developed detailed technical guidance and adaptable planning tools and templates to help countries plan for COVID-19 vaccines considering the many aspects of readiness that need to be put in place. These areas include planning and implementation, data and monitoring, supply and logistics, and acceptance and demand. To support initial preparations, a vaccine introduction readiness assessment tool (VIRAT) has been developed and disseminated. It provides countries with an integrated roadmap of milestones and a framework for self-monitoring progress in preparing for vaccine introduction. This will help ensure that COVID-19 vaccines reach those in need as soon as they are available.WHO advises every country to develop a National Deployment and Vaccination Plan (NDVP) for COVID-19 vaccines.  Having one plan in each country, that comprehensively describes all elements of the country’s approach to COVID-19 vaccine rollout will be crucial for a coordinated effort. Guidance on developing that plan is available from WHO, including all elements that a country needs to consider.
