Every model is an approximation of reality. Models are subject to trade-offs, not least, the balance between comprehensiveness and comprehensibility. WHO’s estimates of the excess mortality associated with the COVID-19 pandemic are also approximations in a rapidly evolving pandemic with regard to transmissibility and severity. It is worth noting that WHO relies on models to compile a wide range of global health statistics. This is necessary as not all countries have high quality information systems, or those that do cannot always share their data in a timely manner. Therefore, WHO works with countries to strengthen their data and health information systems, while at the same time makes the best use of the data currently available to generate high quality evidence. Specifically with regard to the excess mortality estimates, the model uses relationships that have been quantified using data from the countries with high quality systems for data reporting. We extrapolate these relationships to settings that are in many ways systematically different across multiple dimensions such as health systems capacity, underlying disease burden and age-structure. Countries have differed on when they experienced waves and how they responded, and quantifying this temporal relationships between COVID-19 surges or the effects of the emergence of variants is not trivial. In some settings the country responses were reactive but in many others they were proactive. As such, despite the effort to calibrate the model such that it is accurate in different settings, one of the more important limitations to note is that the input data have limited representation and this model generalizes the covariate relationships quantified to settings that may be systematically different from those observed. The final model is intentionally parsimonious. This reduction in complexity means it is not possible for such a reduced set of variables to explain all of the variation that is observed across countries. While the variables chosen are contextually relevant and are found to explain a significant component of the variation in excess, the underlying population characteristics that drove these differences are too complex to fully capture perfectly in a single global model and, hence, the trade-offs referred to above have had to be made. The estimates, therefore, are the best possible at this point in time for the first 24 months of the pandemic and have some degree of uncertainty around them. 
