Try and reduce long periods of time spent sitting, whether for work, studying, watching TV, reading, or using social media or playing games using screens. Reduce sitting for long periods by taking short 3-5 minute breaks every 20-30 minutes.Simply stand up and stretch or even better, take a walk around the house, up and down the stairs, or into the garden. By just moving around and stretching you can improve your health and wellbeing. For more ideas and illustrations of healthy stretchessee here.Set up a regular routine to be active every day, by planning a physical activity or exercise break either by yourself, by joining an online class, or by setting up a time to be active online with your friends or colleagues. Making a specifictime to be active helps ensure you get your daily physical activity. Put the time in your diary, and it will help remind you. Stick with it, as this will help you build a regular routine, and help you adjust to new ways of working, study and familylife under COVID-19 restrictionsBe active with your family and friends, connecting with others can help you and your family in the home and elsewhere spend time together and be active. Planning time to be active with your children withactive games at home, walks in the parks, or cycling can be a way the whole family can relax, be together and be active and healthy whilst at home.   Set yourself and your family Be Active goals, by choosing a specific type of activity, time of day and/or number of minutes you will do every day. Get each family member to choose their own goal which sets a bit of a challenge but isrealistic with help from family or friends and motivation. Record your progress on a weekly activity chart and, if you think it would help, reward yourself with something you value.Stay physically active during self-quarantine More physical activity ideas to help you stay activeFor Infants under 1 year of ageSpend regular time doing floor-based play with your baby in a prone position (‘tummy time’) and spread this throughout the day while baby is awake.For Children under 5 years of ageActive play in and around the home – invent games which involve being active and can develop skills in throwing, catching, kicking, as well as developing posture and balance.Active play and games where children get out of breath, such as running around, skipping and jumping.For Children and adolescents aged 5-17 yearsActive games and active play with family.Join in online active games or activity classes, also look for online physical education classes as well as exercise routines suitable for adolescents.Set up playground games indoors such as Jump rope and hop-scotch – make up new games and challenges that involve being active. Learn a new skill – for example try an learn to juggle. Encourage doing some muscle strength training activities such as lifting weights or use improvised weight such as bottles full of water or sand.For Adults Climb up the stairs as much as you can, think of it as an opportunity to be active. Use household chores as a way to be more physical activity. Join in an online exercise class or make up your own routine to music you enjoy that uses the major muscle groups and raises you heart rate. Do some muscle strengthening activities such as lifting weights or improvise using full bottles of water or simply use your own body weight and do sets of press ups, sit ups and squats. Make time for fun, such as dancing to music.Where to get more help and informationFor more ideas use internet search platforms and check out social media for suggestions and access to free resources suitable for children of all ages and adults of all fitness and abilities.
