WHO’score normative function is to compile and disseminate statistics onmortality – numbers and causes. The world expects WHO to provideobjective evidence on the impact of COVID-19. Estimatingexcess mortality associated with the COVID-19 pandemic supplements the traditionaldirect measure ‘mortality directly attributable to COVID-19’ with abroader measure showing the direct plus the indirect effects of thepandemic.  Itis important to do this now, rather than wait, in order to underpin theneed for an equitable response during the pandemic by showing the realunderlying impact of COVID-19 in different countries – especially lowerand middle income countries that may not have developed healthinformation systems to guide a targeted response. Deathsdirectly attributable to COVID-19 provide only a narrow perspective ofthe wide ranging harms being caused by the pandemic. The collateraldamage from COVID-19 is much wider. It is important to quantify this nowas it can inform choices that governments must make regardingprioritization between routine and emergency health systems.The utility of the excess mortality estimates goes beyond estimation of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. It underlines the significance of investing in health and better targeting of interventions and resources to those most in need to prevent future deaths. These estimates will serve to underscore to governments around the world the need to sharpen their data tools and specifically improve Civil Registration and Vital Statistics (CRVS), mortality surveillance, and data and health information systems.Estimatesof excess mortality associated with the COVID-19 pandemic are also critical inputsfor other important work currently underway. For example, pandemicpreparedness and estimating the global population. The UN is mandated toestimate the global population and prepare population projections.COVID-19 is a significant disruption to normal population growth trendsand must be factored into any future estimates. Global excess mortalityassociated with the COVID-19 pandemic provides a key input to this work, showing theeffects of the pandemic on the global population now, but also thelonger tail effects on future population projections. The importance ofthis should not be underestimated as population is one of the mostimportant denominators for economic and social statistics.  
