If your child tests positive for COVID-19, contact your healthcare provider for guidance. You should seek immediate care if a baby is unable to breastfeed, or if a child is unable to drink, has high fever, rapid breathing, suddenly appears lethargic or doesn’t interact when they are awake, or if their face or lips turn blue.It’s natural to feel concerned or anxious about your child’s health if they are infected with COVID-19.  While some of the same home care guidance applies to children and adults, there are special considerations when taking care of child.Take care of the child with COVID-19 infectionIt is natural for children to be anxious and concerned after testing positive for COVID-19. Listen to their concerns, and help them understand why it’s important to rest and keep a distance from other family members. Encourage them to rest, to stay hydrated and to eat healthy foods. If they are old enough, talk to them about COVID-19 and share accurate information. Reassure your child that their health and safety is your top priority.Be responsive to your child’s needs. Think up ways together for children to stay connected with other family members and friends. Make the space in which the child and caregiver are isolating as child-friendly as possible. Play and learning continue to be an important part of a child’s life. Learn more about helping children hope with stress.Reduce contact with othersThe spread of the COVID-19 virus occurs most often when a person with COVID-19 infection is in close or direct contact with another person.WHO recommends that people with COVID-19 be isolated in a separate room away from other members of the household. However, children should not be isolated on their own. If possible, there should be only one person, who is healthy and not at high risk, in the household providing care to the child with infection. The designated caregiver should take care of the child at all times and monitor their symptoms and safety.The caregiver should wear a medical mask when caring for the infected child and should wash their hands before AND after any interaction with the infected child. If it is possible and safe, keep the room or space well ventilated and open windows frequently. The child with COVID-19 infection should wear a medical mask in shared spaces, as long as the child can tolerate it.Prevent transmission to othersIf it is safe and possible, open windows to get fresh air into the room where the child with COVID-19 infection is staying. Where it is not possible to separate the child and caregiver from the rest of the family, try to separate those at high risk for severe disease from the child with infection and their caregiver.  Keep things clean: Any surfaces and household items, such as dishes, cups and cutlery, touched by the child with COVID-19 infection should be cleaned and disinfected at least once a day. Separate dishes and eating utensil should be used from the infected child.Encourage members of the household to clean their hands frequently using soap and water or an alcohol-based hand sanitiser.Monitor the child with COVID-19 infection and othersThe caregiver and others in a home with a child with COVID-19 infection should pay close attention to how they feel (even if they are vaccinated or are being careful). On average, it takes 5-6 days from when someone is infected for symptoms to show. However, it can take up to 14 days.The caregiver and others in your home should pay attention for any symptoms of COVID-19: including fever, cough, tiredness, loss of taste or smell, sore throat, muscle or body ache, diarrhoea or shortness of breath. Get tested if you have any of these symptoms. Seek immediate medical care if you have any of these severe symptoms of COVID-19: Difficulty breathingChest painConfusionLoss of speech or mobility The caregiver should pay attention and monitor COVID-19 symptoms of the child with infection regularly and seek immediate medical care if notice any of these symptoms:High feverRapid breathingLethargy or not interacting when awakeDifficulty in feeding (unable to drink or breastfeed)Blue lips or face
