In situations like a pandemic it is very normal to feel anxious and powerless, and that is ok. Here are a few suggestions on things that could help you proactively manage your anxiety:TIP 1: DO THINGS THAT ARE GOOD FOR YOUR BODY AND MINDYour body and mind are connected. Here are some things you can do to keep them healthy:• Stay active! Being physically active is good for your body and can help your mind feel better too. If you can go outside, try a walk, run, bike ride, or any other sport. If indoors, try dancing, stretching, or any other movement you can do. Find what works for you – and do it! • Eat well! Try to make healthy choices about what you eat if you can.• Take notice of yourself and the world around you. This means becoming more aware of your breathing, your body and your surroundings. Try to BE PRESENT in the moment! • Sleep! Try to get the right balance of sleep each night. This will help you grow well, stay healthy, and keep clear thoughts.•  Find things that make you happy and do those things more! Listening to music, reading, playing games, chatting with friends, growing plants, cooking, drawing, playing sports...there are many possibilities! Perhaps even try something new! Just make sure that during these activities you respect physical distancing and other protection measures that are in place in your country.TIP 2: STAY CONNECTED TO LOVED ONESKeep in touch with your family and friends however you can. Use social media, email, phone calls, write a letter! Be creative. And if you can’t connect, then think about a memory of a shared time together.TIP 3: RECOGNISE HOW YOU ARE FEELINGUnderstanding how you feel is important. Don’t ignore it. Sometimes writing your feelings down can help you to describe it. It might sound easy or simple, but try this “I feel ....... right now”.TIP 4: BE KIND TO YOURSELF It is okay to feel however it is that you’re feeling. Putting pressure on yourself to always ‘be happy’ or ‘stay positive’ or ‘stay productive’ can sometimes make you feel worse. Instead, if you notice you are experiencing difficult emotions, try telling yourself: “I feel worried and scared, but that does not mean I am not coping.” “It’s been a tough time, it’s okay to be upset.” “I am feeling [insert how you are feeling] and that is okay.” “These are difficult times, it’s normal to feel upset.” Or think of something to tell yourself that works for you. TIP 5: LISTEN TO YOUR BODYOur body experiences and reacts to how we feel. Do you often get headaches? Do your shoulders, chest, or stomach sometimes feel tense? Try closing your eyes, and listening to your own breathing. Notice how you feel in each part of your body, starting from your head down to your toes. Notice if you are feeling any tightness, pain, or pressure in your body. Being aware of where you are feeling tension can help you release it.TIP 6: TRY USING YOUR BREATH TO CALM YOURSELFSlow breathing is one of the quickest ways of calming down the body when we experience feelings such as fear, worry or anger. Close your eyes and think of a calm place. Imagine yourself there, feeling relaxed.• Focus on breathing slowly. • Breathe in for a slow count of 3 and out for a slow count of 3. • Practice this for a few minutes. How do you feel after?TIP 7: AVOID UNHEALTHY WAYS OF COPING WITH STRESSWhen you are experiencing difficult feelings, it is important to find healthy ways to take care of yourself.Find out more on our #HealthyAtHome - Mental health page. Further resources:Read our guide “Doing What Matters in Times of Stress: An Illustrated Guide” Read more from Voices of Youth on how to take care of yourself and your relationships in stressful timesRead about Coping with stress during the 2019-nCoV outbreakYour parents or legal guardians may access this resources on Helping children cope with stress during the 2019-nCoV outbreakThe #CopingWithCOVID is a webinar series that provides young people with a platform for genuine connection amid uncertainty, encouraging them to field their questions to the experts from UNICEF and WHO, and generate mental health awareness among young people. If you missed any of the sessions, you can watch them still!Teamup at home: support for children during the coronavirus pandemic is a resource specifically developed for children aged 6 to 11 but can be enjoyed by people of all ages – it provides a simple, safe and above all fun way to play and exercise in pairs or individually.
