The anonymity of working from home is really taking a toll on people and it is normal if you are feeling a bit forgotten and lost. It can feel difficult to get the attention you deserve and get your work noticed, especially if this is a new job and you do not yet know your manager and other colleagues well.  If you have a comfortable relationship with your supervisor it may be helpful to discuss whether adjustments to your workload, work schedule or other work-related matters can be made. This conversation could also be held with the person responsible for human resources at work.There are many things you can do to feel more comfortable in the new job while working remotely. Ask your supervisor to access a training on remote working and personal effectiveness skills.  Using your time to access learning and training opportunities can not only help you develop skills for your current role but also prepare you for future roles you may desire. Agree with your manager to have regular check-in calls where you can keep your supervisor aware of accomplishments with an informative summary. If you have regular team meetings use this as an opportunity to flag your key successes, and let your co-workers to know you better. Invite your colleagues with whom you haven’t connected yet to virtual coffee dates. Don’t be shy to volunteer for new projects, and offer help to your colleagues when you can.When solutions to problems are hard to find, it can help to talk through with people who you trust, who may be able to help or can be a person to discuss ideas with - ranging from friends, to our work colleagues or supervisors or HR or to external advisors such as career guidance and job-seeking support. Many public employment offices have moved their services online and can offer you great insights about the labour market, vacancies and training opportunities. If you feel your mental health is taking a big toll and its affecting you much more than expected (such as affecting how well you work) then consider the following 1) engaging in stress management techniques – as reduced stress can help to improve our problem solving thinking (see Doing What Matters in Times of Stress and Managing work-related psychosocial risks during the COVID-19 pandemic); 2) if you are still in work, consider reaching out to your staff health or human resources services who may be able to help you find to mental health and psychosocial support at work or through your local health services including online support.  Further resources:Read Tips for teens to learn about 5 ways to stay safe at workAccess this resource for young people who are about to enter, or have recently entered, the labour market to know more about [email protected] for youth. It has hands-on examples on workplace situations and tips how to manage them.Watch these videos on Positive wellbeing in the workplace during COVID-19 pandemicRead this piece on how human factors/ergonomic considerations can improve your teleworking experienceRead and get inspired by the stories of young people volunteering and leading collective action to mitigate the impacts of the pandemic. 
