 There is a lot that you can do to prepare for COVID-19 in your community. Inform yourself of the special measures taken in your community as well as the services and the sources of reliable information that are availableduring the health emergency (e.g. home deliveries, psychosocial support, health ministry website, alternative access to your pension). Create a list of the basic supplies that you will need for at least two weeks and try to get these delivered where possible (e.g. non-perishable food items, household products, batteries for assistivedevices you may use, and prescription medicines). Alternatively, ask family members, caregivers, neighbours or community leaders to help with ordering and/or delivery of groceries or prescription medicines. Make sure that your mobile phonecredit is topped up and identify a safe place to charge your phone regularly so that you can keep in contact with family and friends and reach emergency services if needed.   Make a list of emergency numbers (e.g. COVID-19 local helpline, nearby hospital and health emergencies numbers, hotline for victims of abuse, psychosocial support hotline) and support contacts (e.g. family membersand friends, main caregiver, community care worker, associations of older persons). If you live alone, you may wish to share this list and ask your neighbours, family or caregiver to be in touch regularly, for example, by phone or video chat. Discuss with your health-care worker how your health needs can be addressed during COVID-19. This may involve postponing non-urgent appointments, talking to your doctor or health-care worker by phone or video chat insteadof in person and/or revising your vaccination schedule. If you rely on the support provided by a caregiver, identify with him or her another person that you trust to support your daily living and care needs in case your caregiver is unable to continue to providecare. Together, you can note down all the personal care and assistance that you require and how it should be provided and share it with this trusted person so that they can be ready to provide care in case of need.  If you are the primary caregiver of another person who is care dependent (e.g. grandchild, older spouse, child with a disability), identify a person that you and the person that you care for trust to take on your caregiving responsibilities in case you fall sick.Local authorities or volunteer organizations that provide support in these situations in your community might be able to help. If multiple people live in your home, if possible prepare a separate room or space in your home so that anyone showing symptoms compatible with COVID-19 can be isolated from others. If you do not have space for self-isolation,contact your community leaders or local health authorities to see if there is community space that could help you or other household members self-isolate. Think about what matters most to you regarding care and support, including medical treatment, in case something happens to you and you are unable to make your own decisions. If you want to develop an advanced care plan to recordyour treatment and care wishes, you can talk about it with your health-care worker or someone that you trust. You can write down your wishes and  share them with people you trust.   
