WHO currently recommends that PLHIV should be included as a priority population for COVID-19 immunization. It has been supported by growing evidence suggesting that PLHIV, particularly those with advanced HIV disease, lower CD4 T-cell count, or non-suppressed viral load appear to be at increased risk of poor outcomes and death due to COVID-19 when compared with people without HIV infection. Furthermore, many PLHIV have 1 or more chronic comorbidities that may put them at increased risk of severe COVID-19 or death, independent from their HIV disease or immune status. Therefore, PLHIV, particularly those with co-morbidities (such chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases, diabetes, heart, kidney, liver, motor neurone or Parkinson disease, multiple sclerosis, severe obesity) should be prioritized for COVID-19 vaccination.Many countries have included PLHIV as a priority group for COVID-19 vaccination according to their epidemiological context, prioritizing vaccination for all PLHIV or those who are immunocompromised (as indicated by having a CD4 T-cell count <200/mm3).  In mid-2021, according an informal WHO poll survey conducted with more than 100 countries from all regions, more than 40 have established a COVID-19 immunization policy that prioritizes vaccinations for PLHIV. However, the real coverage of COVID-19 vaccination among PLHIV in countries varies widely. A regional survey conducted at the end of 2021 in central and eastern Europe found that PLHIV had been prioritized for COVID-19 vaccination in 8 of the 22 countries and only 3 countries had formulated guidelines for the vaccination of PLHIV (8). A recent study conducted in New York State, USA, found that COVID-19 vaccination coverage among PLHIV was lower than that in the general adult population (63.5% vs 75.0%) (9).Differences in demographic composition between PLHIV and the general population might partly explain lower coverage; however, coverage was 75% lower across all examined PLHIV subgroups. Unmeasured structural factors, including socioeconomic status, might further explain the lower COVID-19 vaccination coverage among this group. As countries are in different stages of the COVID-19 pandemic and vaccine rollout and have different demographic structure, they should also refer to the  WHO SAGE Roadmap for Prioritizing Uses of COVID-19 Vaccines  for operational details.
