Current available studies on the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines in PLHIV with high CD4 T-cell counts and using ART, indicate that most of these individuals produce antibody levels and cellular immune response in the same range observed in people withoutHIV infection, suggesting that current recommended COVID-19 vaccines are safe and protective in this population. However, there is data in these studies from individuals with low CD4 T-cell counts (i.e., below 200 cells/mm3) or without HIV viral suppression that show a reduced immune response to the COVID-19 vaccine. Furthermore, the antibody responses after vaccination may dwindle faster than people with higher CD4 T-cell counts. This reduced immune response to COVID-19 vaccines has also been reported in individuals with other causes of severe immunodeficiency (e.g., solid and hematologic malignancies, people with organ transplants and in hemodialysis). Suboptimal immune response against certain vaccine preventable diseases has also been demonstrated in people with advanced HIV disease and/or lower CD4 T-cell counts. Higher rates of SARS-CoV-2 infection after primary vaccination (i.e., breakthrough infections) among PLHIV when compared with people without HIV have been described. A population-level analysis conducted in immunocompromised patients indicated a 33% higher incidence rate of breakthrough SARS-CoV-2 infections among PLHIV, albeit without accounting for HIV-specific factors (6). Additionally, a large HIV cohort study with more than 100 000 individuals vaccinated and with good HIV control showed a low overall (3.8%) but 28% higher risk of breakthrough infection without association with HIV viral load or CD4 T-cell counts. The breakthrough rate was also higher in people with vs without HIV (55 cases per 1000 person-years vs 43 cases per 1000 person-years) (7) . These higher rates and risk of breakthrough infections observed in PLHIV when compared with the general population should not be a reason to postpone or to avoid COVID-19 vaccines in these patients, who have a higher risk of COVID-19 complications and death. It supports the recommendation for the use of additional primary doses in this population as in other immunocompromised groups. Furthermore, national COVID-19 immunization programmes should not exclude people from key and vulnerable populations at risk of HIV, who frequently have limited access to health services. WHO will continue to monitor emerging evidence and will provide timely guidance updates.  
