It’s hard when someone close to you is unwell. Even though you may want to provide comfort and company to your ill relative, it is important to reduce the likelihood that you or other family members catch COVID-19. For people with mild or moderatesymptoms, the best thing you can do is provide the care they need while also keeping a safe distance.First of all – protect the health of others in the householdPeople with COVID-19 infection should (where possible) be isolated in a separate room, away from others in the home. If possible, close the door to stop air from moving from the infected person’s room into the rest of the home. If it’s safe,open windows and turn on a fan in the room if you have one. No other visitors should be allowed in the home when someone in the household has COVID-19 infection. Follow guidance from your country’s health department or ministry about regardingwhether or not close contacts need to isolate at home.If it is not possible to isolate the infected person in your home, try to move people at risk of severe disease to a household where they will not be exposed to possible infection.If you have to share space in your home with someone with COVID-19, open windows to bring in fresh air if it’s safe to do so. COVID-19 spreads easily in places that are poorly ventilated. Learn more about ventilation.Secondly - protect the health of the person caring for the person with COVID-19 infectionThe spread of the COVID-19 virus occurs most often when an infected person is in close or direct contact with another person. If possible, there should be only one person in the household providing care to the person who has COVID-19 infection.If possible, choose someone to be the caregiver who is healthy and not at high risk. Caregivers should wash their hands before AND after any interaction with the person with COVID-19 infection. Both the caregiver and the person who is infected shouldwear a medical mask whenever they share a space with each other. If possible, open windows when the caregiver is in the room with the person with COVID-19 infection.Monitor how you feel.Caregivers and others in a home with a person with COVID-19 infection should pay close attention to how they feel (even if they are vaccinated or are being careful). On average, if takes 5-6 days from when someone is infected for symptoms to show. However,it can take up to 14 days.Symptoms may vary. Monitor yourself and others in your home for any symptoms of COVID-19 -- including fever, cough, tiredness, loss of taste or smell, sore throat, muscle or body ache, headache, running nose, loss of appetite, nausea, diarrhea orshortness of breath. Or altered mental status.  Get tested if you have any of these symptoms. Seek immediate medical care if you have any of these severe symptoms of COVID-19: Difficulty breathingChest painConfusionLoss of speech or mobility For young children, seek immediate medical care if you notice any of these symptoms:High feverRapid breathingLethargy or not interacting when awakeDifficulty in feeding (unable to drink or breastfeed) Blue lips or faceIf you think you may have COVID-19 infection and are waiting for test results, avoid contact with other people if possible until you know whether or not you are infected. Watch for warning signs.Pay attention to any changes in the signs and symptoms a person with COVID-19 infection in your care. Some symptoms may be signals that more urgent medical care is needed. Depending on the age of the person in your care, their symptoms may look different.Adults may look dehydrated, have shortness of breath or chest pains. They may also complain of light-headedness. Children may suddenly appear confused or refuse to eat. Their face or lips may turn blue. Babies may be unable to breastfeed. These symptomsare warning signs that urgent care is needed.If the person with COVID-19 infection under your care shows any of these signs, contact your healthcare provider immediately. Keep things clean.Any surfaces and household items touched by the person with COVID-19 infection should be cleaned and disinfected at least once a day. Household items include dishes, cups and flatware. COVID-19 can spread from an infected person’s mouth or nose in small liquid particles when they cough, sneeze, speak, sing or breathe. These particles range from larger respiratory droplets to smaller aerosols.Current evidence suggests that the virus spreads mainly between people who are in close contact with each other, typically within 1 metre. A person can be infected when aerosols or droplets containing the virus are inhaled or come directly into contactwith the eyes, nose, or mouth. The virus can also spread in poorly ventilated and/or crowded indoor settings, where people tend to spend longer periods of time. This is because aerosols remain suspended in the air or travel farther than 1 metre.People may also become infected by touching surfaces that have been contaminated with the virus and then touching their eyes, nose or mouth without cleaning their hands.Continue to practice prevention measures.Keep a distance of at least 1 meter from others;Wear a well-fitted mask over your mouth and nose;Open windowsCough or sneeze into a bent elbow;Clean your hands frequently; andGet vaccinated as soon as it’s your turn.
