According to currently available evidence, most women of childbearing age with COVID-19 will likely be asymptomatic or have mild COVID-19 symptoms and should continue to take combined hormonal contraception (CHC). Here are the most common possible scenarios: Women who are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms of known COVID-19: combined hormonal contraception can be continued and is considered safe in this population. If women are concerned, their provider should explain that there is no evidence of increased risk of thrombosis among combined hormonal contraception users with mild COVID-19 symptoms. If a combined hormonal contraception user wishes to discontinue this method, she can be offered a progestin-only or non-hormonal method, if available and acceptable. Women with serious symptoms[1] of COVID-19 who are not hospitalized: Discontinuation of combined hormonal contraception should be considered, based on a patient’s clinical symptoms of COVID-19 (e.g. immobilization for more than 7 days, difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, pneumonia). Considerations around stopping combined hormonal contraception should also take into account if the user has other medical conditions that may increase the risk of thrombosis during COVID-19. If combined hormonal contraception is discontinued, progestin-only or non-hormonal methods can be offered, if available and acceptable. Women hospitalized with severe COVID-19: Combined hormonal contraception should be discontinued during hospitalisation. The risk of thrombosis in this acutely ill population may outweigh the benefits of continuing combined hormonal contraception. Progestin-only and non-hormonal contraceptive methods can be used. Women resuming contraception: It is important that all women who discontinue contraception during COVID-19 illness are given counselling about when to resume contraception and are provided with the method of their choice. Any new or existing medical conditions need to be considered when choosing a contraceptive method. Combined hormonal contraception can be resumed 2 weeks after any prolonged period of prolonged limited mobility (immobilization). the end of immobilization. Other methods can be started without delay.  [1] Serious symptoms may include difficulty breathing or shortness of breath, chest pain or pressure, or loss of speech or movement. Coronavirus. In: World Health Organization/Health topics [website]. Geneva: World Health Organization. (https://www.who.int/health-topics/coronavirus#tab=tab_3, accessed 5 November 2020). 
