To prevent infection, there are a five things that you can do. 1. Wash your hands frequently and thoroughly with soap and water and dry them thoroughly. You can also use alcohol-based hand rub if your hands are not visibly dirty and if this product is available. Cleaning your hands frequently will remove the virus if it is on your hands. You can learn how to wash your hands in this video (or this visual). If an alcohol-based hand rub or soap is not available, then using chlorinated water (0.05%) for handwashing is an option, but it is not ideal because frequent use may irritate your skin.  2. Cover your mouth and nose with a flexed elbow or tissue when coughing and sneezing. And remember to throw away the used tissue immediately in a bin with a lid and to wash your hands. This way you protect others from any virus released through coughs and sneezes. 3. Avoid touching your eyes, nose and mouth. Hands touch many surfaces which can be contaminated with the virus. If you touch your eyes, nose or mouth with unclean hands, you can transfer the virus from the surface to yourself. 4. Keep physical distance from others. If your national or local authorities have put in place confinement measures, it is important to respect them. Taking exercise outside is good for your physical and mental health, but should only be undertaken if regulations for your area allow it. When you do go out, avoid crowded spaces and maintain at least 1 metre distance (3 feet or arms-length) from others. Avoid unnecessary visits to your house. If visits are necessary (e.g. caregiver to support with activities of daily living), ask your visitor to regularly check for symptoms to ensure that they are symptom free when visiting you. Ask them to also follow these five key actions, including washing their hands when they first enter your home.  5. Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces every day. This includes tables, doorknobs, light switches, countertops, handles, desks, phones, keyboards, toilets, taps, and sinks. If surfaces are dirty, use detergent or soap and water prior to disinfection. Learn more by clicking here.
