Currently approved COVID-19 vaccines are safe and effective in most PLHIV, with significant reduction in the risk of severe COVID-19 disease or death when the standard regimen (currently 1 or 2 doses of the approved COVID-19 vaccine depending on the product) is fully taken as recommended. However, there is a growing evidence of a suboptimal immune response to the standard course of COVID-19 vaccination in people with moderate to severe immunodeficiency, including those with advanced HIV disease, lower CD4 T-cell counts, or unsuppressed viral load.Therefore, in people with moderate to severe advanced HIV disease, an additional vaccine dose should be administered as part of the extended primary series and should be given 1–3 months after the completion of the primary series to enhance the immune response and increase protection. This approach is recommended by WHO as well as several other major COVID-19 guidelines.A gradual reduction of vaccine effectiveness against SARS-CoV-2 infection has been observed after the completion of primary COVID-19 vaccine series, even in those individuals without clinical immunodeficiency and with good initial response to the primary vaccine course. Many countries are now recommending the administration of an additional vaccine dose as a booster in all individuals, including PLHIV who are asymptomatic or mild clinical immunodeficiency and CD4 counts above 200 T-cells/mm3 and virologically suppressed. This booster dose can be taken 4 to 6 months after the completion of the primary vaccination series . The objective of the booster doses strategy is to restore vaccine effectiveness from that deemed no longer sufficient. Some countries are implementing a second booster dose for their highest risk populations, including people with moderate to severe advanced HIV disease, 3–5 months after an initial booster dose . More data on the waning of protective immunity and vaccine effectiveness against severe disease and hospitalization after an initial booster dose is required before WHO endorsed recommendation on the additional booster dose. According to the WHO SAGE roadmap, the highest priority continues to be ensuring that all PLHIV receive their primary vaccine series against COVID-19, complemented by an additional dose in those with advanced HIV disease.Risk of development of immune escape variants in immunosuppressed patientsPeople with moderate to severe immunodeficiency have an increased risk of developing severe COVID-19 and suffering from a long-term persistent infection with prolonged viral shedding due to suboptimal immune response. For persons with immune dysfunction, continued use of nonpharmaceutical interventions (e.g., facial mask wearing) and alternative vaccine strategies (e.g., additional vaccine doses or immunogenicity testing) are recommended even after full vaccination.This situation can create an environment for immune escape and selection of evolutionary variants. Several case reports indicated that multi-mutational SARS-CoV-2 variants can arise during such persistent infections in immunocompromised individuals and could result in novel SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern. The findings that immunocompromised patients with persistent SARS-CoV-2 infection may generate new SARS-CoV-2 variants have several medical and public health implications. Heightened precautions should be taken to avert nosocomial transmission of COVID-19 among immunocompromised patients. Such patients should be prioritized for anti-COVID-19 immunization not only to protect them but also to mitigate persistent SARS-CoV-2 infections.
