Many of the initial clinical studies with COVID-19 vaccines have included a small number of people living with HIV (PLHIV) in their trials. Despite limited data, available information from those studies suggests that current WHO recommended COVID-19 vaccines are safe for PLHIV. The currently available COVID-19 vaccine products are not live vaccines butinclude modified viral proteins or genetic material from SARS-CoV-2 which cannot replicate or cause changes to human genes. More recent observational studies have further evaluated the safety of COVID-19 vaccines in this population and didn’tfind any evidence of a higher rate of unusual side effects after vaccination when compared with general population. In addition, no pharmacological interactions have been reported between COVID-19 vaccines and antiretroviral medications (ARV) whichPLHIV should continue to take after vaccination to maintain health.Recently, a debate in the scientific community has led to broader concerns about a potential association observed more than a decade ago between adenovirus vector-based vaccines and an increased risk of acquiring HIV infection among men who received thistype of vaccine. This unexpected finding was detected in two HIV vaccine trials that used adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) vector containing products (3, 4). The reason for this observed increase in the HIV acquisition risk remains uncertain, althoughseveral hypothetical mechanisms have suggested a possible interference in the HIV specific vaccine response or in the CD4 T-cell susceptibility to HIV infection induced by pre-existing adenovirus- associated immunity in combination with other factors. However, a third study also using Ad5 vector-based HIV vaccine has not reported this finding (5).Despitethese potential concerns, it is important to highlight that the benefits of all authorized COVID-19 vaccines in a pandemic context largely outweigh this potential risk. The theoretical concern on increased risk of HIV acquisition is confined to a specificAd5 vectored HIV vaccine and should not be extended to other vaccine platforms. However, as several COVID-19 vaccines are using human and animal adenovirus vector platforms, specific studies are encouraged to better assess the safety of Ad5 vectored COVID-19vaccines in sub-populations at high risk of HIV acquisition. An extended follow-up from a Phase III study of an Ad5 vectored COVID-19 vaccine is currently evaluating HIV seroconversion rates in the participants, and interim results are expected in theend of 2022. Global data have shown that PLHIV have a 38% greater risk of developing severe or fatal COVID-19 compared to people without HIV infection. For this reason, it is important to prioritize PLHIV to receive the COVID-19 vaccine. People with stable HIV diseasehave been now included in several COVID-19 vaccine trials, and specific cohort studies on COVID-19 vaccines with PLHIV has been recently rolled out. Therefore, more information on this topic specific to PLHIV is expected in the future. WHO will continueto monitor the situation as new data become available and SAGE recommendations willbe updated accordingly.
