Contact tracing identifies, and monitors people who have been exposed to someone who has been infected with SARS-CoV-2, and involves several steps: Defining contacts: Contact definitions may vary by country. WHO defines a contact as a person who has been exposed to someone else who has had recent probable or confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection: 1. face-to-face contact with a probable or confirmed case within 1 meter and for at least 15 minutes; 2. direct physical contact with a probable or confirmed case; 3. direct care for a patient with probable or confirmed COVID-19 disease without the use of recommended PPE; or 4. other situations as indicated by local risk assessments. Exposure is considered any time between 2 days before to at least 13 days after the case started to show symptoms. For asymptomatic cases, a contact is anyone who has been exposed between 2 days before and 10 days after the date on which the sample that led to confirmation of infection was taken. Identifying contacts: this is usually done through an interview with the person infected with SARS-CoV-2 to find out who they have been in contact with during the period of time described above. There are other ways to identify contacts depending on the setting, for example through membership or attendance lists of places the case visited during the period described above, or through public notices. Digital proximity tracing applications have also been developed to help identify and notify contacts through automated processes.  Informing contacts: each identified contact should be contacted to confirm whether they meet the definition of a contact. This may be done through health authorities and/or via digital tracing proximity applications. Cases may also be encouraged to inform their own contacts. Each person identified as a contact will be informed about the goal of contact tracing, the process (including how their personal data will be protected), how to undertake quarantine and for how long, and who to contact with any concerns or questions. Additional information should be provided on symptoms to monitor throughout the quarantine period, and what to do if a contact returns a positive test or becomes unwell. Managing and monitoring contacts: contacts should be encouraged and supported during the  quarantine period. WHO recommends that the quarantine period ends 14 days after the contact was last exposed to the person who has been infected with SARS-CoV-2. However, the duration of the quarantine period may vary between countries. Data processes and analysis: The information collected from each contact is stored in a secure database. These processes vary from country to country. See question What should be considered for data protection? 
