Classic interview-based contact tracing relies heavily on the presence of a trained workforce to carry out      essential activities such as contact elicitation, notification and follow-up. However, this workforce can be quickly overwhelmed in the context of widespread SARS-CoV-2 transmission. Electronic tools and information technology have been used to enhance the efficiency of contact tracing processes, and are currently being used in the COVID-19 pandemic.  So far, no single digital tool addresses all the steps required to monitor end-to-end contact tracing and quarantine of contacts. Oversight from public health workforce is still required. The technical and ethical requirements related to the use of such digital tools should be considered  when making decisions as to the use of these tools. Digital tools that support contact tracing processes may be broadly divided into three categories based on their public health function during specific steps of the contact tracing process:Identifying and notifying contacts: These solutions are intended for use by the general public, health professionals and the contact tracing team. They include digital proximity tracing tools that use systems based on Bluetooth or GPS location signaling, to notify users who have been in close proximity and prolonged contact to individuals who tested positive for COVID-19 and registered their status in the tool. There are also location-based digital contract tracing tools that use quick response (QR) codes that can be scanned by smartphones users when they visit a venue, so that if they later test positive for COVID-19, other application users who attended the same venue, at the same time may be sent an alert, if local public health authorities deem it necessary.Monitoring contacts: These tools are intended for use by those identified as contacts, health professionals and the contact tracing team. They include symptoms checker tools that can help contacts  to self-monitor and report the presence or absence of symptoms to health professionals who may conduct further assessments, health counselling and connect them with the public health authorities for testing and other supportive services. These tools may be particularly helpful in settings where contact tracing workforce personnel may be limited and/or there are physical or security barriers preventing in-person visits by contact tracing teams.Surveillance data management and analysis:  These solutions are used by public health professionals to collect, manage, analyse and visualize data collected by contact tracing teams which link cases and contacts. They include outbreak response tools (such as Go.Data, Commcare, SORMAS, etc.) that can be used for case investigation, listing and monitoring of contacts, and analysis. It is important to note that these tools cannot substitute a well-trained health and community workforce, qualified supervisors, decentralized operations and good coordination; which are all necessary criteria for successful and effective contract tracing. More information on digital tools for contact tracing can be accessed here and ethical considerations to guide the use of digital proximity tracking technologies is available here.   
