The Pfizer vaccine can be safely administered to children from 5 years of age. Both Moderna and Pfizer vaccines are licensed for use in children from 12 years of age.  WHO recommends that children aged 5 and above with comorbidities that put them at significant risk of severe COVID-19 should be offered vaccination, at a reduced dosage, alongside other high-risk groups. Countries may now consider vaccinating healthy children from the age of 5 years of age and adolescents as part of their national vaccination strategies. However, WHO strongly recommends that countries should vaccinate children only when high vaccine coverage with primary vaccination series has been achieved in higher priority-use groups, as identified in the WHO Prioritization Roadmap. Vaccine trials for children and adolescents and other COVID-19 vaccines are ongoing and WHO will update its recommendations when the evidence or epidemiological situation justifies a change in policy.COVID-19 has also been a more serious and dangerous disease among older people. While the supply of vaccines is constrained, the ongoing priority is to vaccinate those most at risk of serious illness who still have not been vaccinated in many parts of the world: older people, those with chronic health conditions and health workers.Most children are at low risk of serious disease and vaccinating them would be primarily about reducing transmission. There is emerging evidence that vaccines may be less effective at reducing transmission of Omicron. This means that the most impactful thing that can be done to protect children while vaccines are still being prioritised for those most at risk is to continue to practice the protective behaviours: keep a safe distance from others and avoid crowds, wear a well-fitting mask covering your mouth and nose, keep indoor spaces well ventilated, clean hands regularly and cover coughs and sneezes. Caregivers should follow national guidelines around children staying home from school if unwell, getting tested for COVID-19 when showing symptoms. 
